Right now you, yes you, have people
going to your website looking at
products and not ordering a single
thing. Which means if you don't have a
way of bringing them back and buying,
the money you're spending on ads is
slowly going to waste. That's why in
this video, I'm going to show you how to
create a highconverting browse abandoned
flow inside of your email platform,
whatever one you're using. In this
video, I'm going to be doing it inside
of Clavia. This is going to target
people who view a specific product on
your website, but don't go any further
in the funnel, such as adding it to cart
or placing an order. I've used this flow
to generate tens of millions of dollars
in loss sales for e-commerce [music]
brands. Today, I'm going to walk you
through exactly how to do the same. It's
important to understand that this is not
a cart abandoned flow and this is not a
checkout abandoned flow. This is a
browse abandoned flow. Somebody looked
at a specific product and then left
without going any further. And so, if
you go inside of Clavia or whatever
platform you're using, you can head over
to metrics. And the specific metric that
we are going to be using to fire this
flow is going to be this viewed product
metric which in this store you can see
that this is firing whenever somebody
looks at that specific product page.
Somebody looks at a product page. And
right here we can see on October 29th
there were 201 people who we have their
email address and they looked at a
product page. These are 201 potential
people that we could send this email
flow to and recover sales. If you do not
see this viewed product section, this
trigger right here inside of your Claio
or it's not showing any numbers, then
what you have to do is you have to
disable your integration with Shopify,
whatever platform you're using with
Claio, and then reenable it. That should
fix this and get it to works. Every once
in a while, it breaks, but disabling
reenabling usually fixes it. If you have
a customcoded website or anything like
that, you're going to have to talk to a
developer or something. But now, let's
get into actually creating this flow and
the exact strategy that we've used to
generate millions of dollars in
recovered revenue. So if we go to flows
here, we can create a flow. Now there
are a couple different options that we
could do. We can see right here there is
a template from Clavio called the browse
abandoned flow. You could also build
your own flow, but in this case I'm
going to just use their template right
here. I'm going to name it test browse
and then we are going to create this and
we're going to look at the triggers and
the filters. You can see that the
trigger right here is that viewed
product metric that I was just telling
you. So, if we click use template,
Clavio is going to generate it for us
and it's going to plug in this flow
right here. And you can see right here
it has the trigger. It waits 2 hours and
then it sends this browse abandoned
email which we can view it right inside
of here. But even Claio gets some things
wrong, which I wish they didn't, but
they do. So, if we click into this
trigger, you can see that this is what's
firing the flow. This viewed product
metric we were just talking about. And
then they have profile filters right
here, which there's one missing. Let's
see if you can find it. But essentially
what this profile filter is saying is
before anybody receives any of these
emails or anything within this flow,
it's going to double check that the
profile follows these rules. So this
rule right here, checkout started zero
times starting this flow. That's
correct. We want to make sure anybody in
this flow has not gone to checkout
because that should fire a different
flow, the checkout abandoned flow, which
we want to treat differently. Then also
placed order zero times to starting this
flow. If somebody places an order, we
don't want them to receive these emails.
And then also has not been in this flow
for the past 30 days, it's correct. If
somebody's viewing multiple different
products, we don't want to barge them
with the same flow. That's correct.
However, they're missing one metric, and
that is the added to cart metric. If
somebody adds to cart, we obviously
don't want them to send browse abandoned
flow. We want them to go into the cart
abandoned flow. So, we're going to say
someone has added to cart. We're going
to say zero times since starting this
flow. To be extra careful, I actually
kind of like to say in the last seven or
so days because how most sites are set
up is people can actually add to cart
without viewing a product. So, what if
somebody added the cart from a
collection page, they didn't view the
product, then they're going to get fired
into the cart abandoned flow, but what
if in that same time that person also
viewed a product? I don't want these
people in the same flow at the same
time. So, just as like a fail safe, I
like to do this. And then boom, we're
all set. It is all functionally set up
correctly. Now, we can build our email
strategy. Now, this is where most people
start to mess [music] things up because
you cannot just throw in any series of
emails and expect to make sales. See,
these website visitors might be
interested in your product that you have
to offer. That doesn't mean that getting
them to buy is going to be easy. You
need to basically guide them back into
the buy button without raising any sort
of sales resistance. And the strategy
that we're going to use to do that
consists of four emails. Let's get into
it. So, here is a simple strategy that
we use that you can steal as well.
There's a good balance of making sure
you have the right content, but not
getting too crazy or confusing. What
we're going to do is after somebody
views a product, we're going to wait 1
hour before we send this first email. We
don't want to wait a day cuz that person
might not be interested anymore. We
don't want to wait 10 minutes because
they might still be browsing on the
website. So, we want to wait one hour.
And inside this email, we want to have a
dynamic clavia block showing exactly
what that person left behind. We want to
give some social proof like having these
testimonials right here. And we also
want to show other products because what
if that person just viewed that product,
but they didn't like it? They might be
interested in something else. So, this
is perfect. You can switch this with any
sort of social proof section. You could
do a social proof section and then a
product section. For this specific
email, we ended up deciding to mix the
two right here. somebody can shop some
of the other items or go back to this
item that they viewed. And I'll go over
how to build this in Clavio. Just bear
with me as I go through the full
strategy. And then we're going to wait 1
day before we send the second email. And
this one, it's going to be pretty
similar. We're going to mention their
abandonment at the top. We're going to
show the item that they left behind. And
just keep it simple. We threw in some
social proof. And we like to answer some
FAQs right here. So, it's going to be
specific to your brand. What are your
FAQs? For this specific email, they were
just pushing one specific collection.
So, there are a few FAQs to do with
that. And then a social proof section.
But really, we don't need to change
anything too much. I just like to focus
a little bit more on FAQs instead of
social proof for this email. And then we
wait another day before we enter some
sort of discount. Now, it's going to
depend on your brand and your margins
and what offers work specific for you.
But this is what we like to do here for
our brands. Typically here, it makes
sense. They were so close to buying,
they're not going to buy. Maybe we can
get them with a discount. So, we want to
give them a discount code right up at
the top of the email. We want to address
the abandonment. You can do percent off,
dollar off, you can do a free gift,
whatever. You want to show what they
left behind. And since they have a
discount, maybe they don't want to use
that discount on that product. So, you
want to show some other products as
well. Boom. Super simple. Add as much
urgency as you want here. And then for
email 4, we like to do something fun
here by mixing in a textbased email from
the team or from the founder. It's going
to be a personal touch point, which
really hits well for the customer in
2026 and beyond. People just are kind of
tired of seeing only corporate based
stuff. So, you want to reach out from an
actual person. You want to personally
remind them of that discount and give
them a little bit more education on your
brand. As you can see here, hey there,
it's Ashley here, the Rebel mastermind
behind Rebel Bro. We started this brand
with one goal in mind. Create cool
clothes for boys with exceptional
quality made to last. Our mama
supporters mean everything to us, which
is why I saved this discount for you.
10% off. Use this code, claim my
discount. And thanks for rolling with
us. You can see it feels personal. Feels
like an actual friend sending you an
email. And that's why it works so well.
As you can see, this is not as simple as
just throwing in one email and calling
it good. You have to set up the flow,
nail the timing, and know exactly what
to do at each stage. So, if you want to
set up a high converting flow like this
and all your other abandonment flows
without having to do all this work, you
can book a call with us below. We built
out email flows for over 200 different
brands, and we've generated $150 million
in e-commerce sales in the process. So,
if you want to see if we can help you as
well, book a call below. Either way,
let's walk through the rest of these
emails. So, that is the flow that we are
going to rock with for today. Let's get
into building this inside of Clavia. So,
I deleted the time delay and we are now
going to put in our oneh hour time delay
right here before we send the first
email. And then to build the rest of the
skeleton, I'm just going to put these
rest of these time delays in and then I
will slot in the emails. Now, I like to
send one day apart because somebody just
showed that they were active on our
website. Sometimes if you wait a week or
you wait like a couple days, these
people aren't going to be interested
anymore. But I found it's highest
converting to hit them with emails while
you have their attention. So, we have
those three right here. I'm just going
to duplicate this email right here a
couple of times because this current
email is a graphic based email. So, I'm
just going to clone these. Put you here.
And for this last email, it's going to
be a textbased email. So, I'm just going
to drag another email section right
here. And then we are all good. Let me
just rename these to browse abandoned
email number two and then three. So,
here we go. We have these set up. Now,
something super important that we want
to do is if we go into this email, we
can see this icon called smart sending.
So, if you click onto this email, we
scroll down, we can see skip recently
emailed profiles. That's what smart
sending is. And so, if anybody's
received an email within the past 12
hours, it's going to skip them from
receiving this email. Now, we don't want
this to be turned on for flows. Cuz what
if somebody received an email campaign
from you, they clicked on that email,
they viewed a product, and then they
left. Well, if somebody viewed a product
and leaves, we want to send them this
email cuz this is a very high converting
email. So, for all of my abandonment
flow emails, I want to turn this
specific setting off. And I see brands
miss out on thousands and thousands and
thousands of dollars by having this
turned on within their abandonment
flows. So, make sure you turn that one
off. Now, let's get to the actual
creatives of these emails. Now, you can
either design your emails within Figma,
which is what I'm operating within here.
This app right here, it's where I like
to design emails. I have a video on
email design if you want to check it
out. You can operate within Figma. I
highly recommend it. But if you're short
on time, you can also do it right inside
of Clavia. So we have our subject line
and then we have our preview text. We
can change this to whatever we want. Do
you see something you liked and then
maybe for preview text? I'll be we held
this for you for now with a dot dot dot.
I've always seen that that performs
better. Then we can go into actually
editing this template right inside of
here. You can see Clavio has this sort
of template for us right here. It has a
headline. Well, what are you waiting
for? It has some text. You can edit this
text directly inside of Clavio. The only
problem is it's a bit limited in how
much you can do inside of here, but it
can still convert for you. And so it's
okay if you're short on time to use
something like this. And then you'll see
this fancy section right here, which is
the dynamic section. So this is what is
going to change for each customer,
whoever receives this email. And it's
going to show them exactly what that
person left behind. And so if you don't
have this currently set up within your
email, you can see it's just a table.
And then you want to do this exact setup
for this image. You want to do a top
left section right here. You want the
image, you want it to be a dynamic image
with this variable right here. That's
going to pull the product image. Link
address, you want this right here. Then
if you want the product name, you have
it there. And then price right here. You
can test if this is properly pulling for
customers. I'm going to blur this out
because this is a client account. You
can look right here. It's going to show
exactly what that left behind. And I
know this is blurred, but you can see
this is the product. Then it has the
name and then the price. And you'll also
see some stuff pulled down here because
what Claio has done here is they've
inserted a product feed for you, which
this is product feed. Essentially,
you're able to pull in dynamic products
for each customer. So, you can do
popular categories, you can have it be
specific products that you want to show
here, and you can adjust this however
you want. You can include buttons, you
can exclude buttons, you can have shop
now buttons, whatever you want. For now,
I can delete this and do this right
here. Right now, we can change this to
something like your order is ready to
go. And something like this typically
converts better for me. It's a little
bit more aggressive because it makes it
seem like for the customer, their order
is like all they have to do is like say
yes and we will send them their order.
So, usually something like that can work
pretty well. And honestly, like if
you're super short on time, something
like this is going to convert because
it's showing somebody exactly what they
left behind. You can adjust the copy to
be whatever you want it to be and you
can roll with this. But I want a higher
converting email. So we are going to go
into Figma and we are going to create
one of these. So if I wanted to recreate
an email like this within Figma, this is
like for example what that could look
like. We do the dynamic clavio block. We
give social proof and we show other
products. What I've done here is this is
a just a frame. It's literally just a
frame. And then we have a text box right
here. Let's upgrade that sock drawer.
It's a sock brand. We know you're ready.
Then we'll have the Clavio dynamic
block. We'll have this button and then
we pull in some testimonials with some
cool design features right here. Shop
bests sellers and then we show some of
the products right here if somebody
wanted to shop other items. So that
would be a viable option for having this
email inside of Clavio. And I'm not
going to go into the specific designs. I
have other videos on design. But
essentially how we would then bring this
into Clavio is you would have to use
this slice feature here. And you can
upload these emails as images. So I
would up I would export these images
just like this. just name it name it
random stuff. Then we'll be able to
upload the images right inside of
Clavio. So I'm just going to do this
right here and show you one of these. We
want to skip the Claio dynamic section
slice because we're going to add that
right within Claio. And we'd actually
want to have different slices for each
one of these products. And I can show
you that once we're inside of Clavio.
I'm not going to do this now just for
sake of time. If you want to see exactly
how to upload these emails by using
these designs, again, check out this
video which shows how to upload emails
into your email sending platform just
like this. But essentially, we've
downloaded all these images. Now, we can
upload these images within this
platform. So, we're going to drag in
this image block right here. And then
I'm going to upload everything as
images. So, here I am here just
uploading the images. I'm going to
duplicate this image block a couple of
times and then put in the rest of these
image blocks. So you can see how this is
coming out to be. We go then to the
dynamic section. I'm going to drag a new
section right here. Delete you. So now
we have the full email right inside of
here. We have the logo. We have the full
email right inside of here. And then we
can preview this with the dynamic
section if we want. Right here we can
see what it looks like on desktop and
then also what it's going to look like
on mobile. And this looks perfect. It'll
have the dynamic section here. You can
also adjust the dynamic section if you
want to go to the text. You can change
the fonts, you can change the colors,
whatever you want to do. And this is
perfect. And again, the nuance with
uploading as images is each image needs
to have its own link. And so if we go
down here, just for the sake of time, I
uploaded one big image right here, which
we wouldn't want to do because this
section, this if somebody clicks this
bestsellers button, we want to link them
to best sellers. Whereas if somebody
clicked this, we want to link them to
that specific product, which these
products are definitely fun. And so
that's the only thing where you'd have
to upload different image slices. That's
for another video. But that's exactly
how this is going to look. You can
upload the links. You can pull the link
address for this button. I can pull it
from the dynamic section here. What this
dynamic link is going to take the person
is directly to the product that they
viewed. Pretty sweet. And then boom,
there is our first email. And that's
exactly how you are going to do the
creatives. We can do that for email two
and email three. But what we're going to
do with the creatives is we're going to
focus here. We're going to have some
different copy up at the top. Maybe have
a little bit more urgency. like don't
wait too long since it's very popular at
the moment. You can use wording like
that in these second emails have this
FAQ section. And then for email three,
we're going to enter a discount. Put
that at the top of the email before we
go into the plain text email, which when
we want to build the plain text email,
all that we want to do right here is
when we're building the email, we click
onto it. We want to create texton email.
Once we do that, it's going to take us
into this texton builder right here. And
this is where we can create the email.
And so I just copy and pasted the
example email, this textbased email
right here. I just copy and pasted this
to put in this. You can see like the
texton editor. Now we can put in the
link. So for the link, we want to use
that same formula from the other email.
Now we can do that. You can go and copy
and paste the prior dynamic link that we
used for the button in the other email.
Something you can also do if you ever
want to pull specific information, if
you click preview, you can actually look
into someone and look at everything
about the trigger, what fired, price,
and everything. So, if you wanted to
insert the price into this email, all
you have to do is you have to click, you
click right here, and it's going to give
you that formula, which is pretty sweet.
In this case, we want the URL that the
person looked at. So, if I click this,
this is what's going to be the dynamic
section. You can see it looks a little
bit different because Claio added this
default tag and I'll show you that in a
second. But essentially what we do here
is we'll put that link in. It's going to
be eventurl and so it's going to take
that person to whatever the event URL
was which for browse abandon email and
trigger it's going to be take the person
directly to that page. Then we have this
default section. So if there's ever an
issue with the link or the dynamic
section stops working there's this fall
back option. So, this is where you could
just send people if it didn't work. For
some reason, the event didn't get passed
over. You can have a default where it
says um for example, you can just take
it to your main homepage. So, maybe I'd
do something like nike.com and then
boom, now it's going to be highlighted
like this. Can bold this section and
then we are all good to go. You can also
pull in first name as well if we wanted
to do that. I can just click preview
email and then we're all good to go. We
can click save, you can test it,
whatever you want to do. And then you're
pretty much all set. And then boom. All
that we would have to do here is we
would just need to adjust the creatives
for we already have this first email.
Just would need to add the creatives for
this email, this email, and then also
we're all good with this one. The best
part is within Claio, we can set up AB
tests on these emails. So if you wanted
to AB test the headline or something or
maybe including the price within your
dynamic section, we can click this
create AB test section right here. Once
we click this, it's going to duplicate
this email two times right here. So
maybe for this one I'm going to do name
it as email one test include price. So
maybe I want to test including the price
in the email. And then I can do the same
but I can do include price. And in this
one we're going to do exclude [music]
price. And so then what I'm going to do
for the exclude price one, I'm going to
go to edit email right here. I'm going
to go over into this dynamic section and
I'm going to exclude the price cuz maybe
people will click or engage at a higher
rate if they don't see the price until
they go to the page. And what I can do
here is I can exit. I can click done and
I can go back in configure the AB test
right here. So we have the include price
going to show the price right here. And
we go to the exclude price. We're going
to see that it's not there. That's
perfect. And then we can publish this
test if we want right here. But I'm not
going to do that in this case. And then
you can let this test run and then check
in on the results. I have this talk that
goes over all four abandonment flows and
walks through these even in a little bit
more depth for the browse abandoned flow
with subject line ideas and preview text
ideas. Goes over also the site abandoned
flow, card abandoned flow, checkout
abandoned flow, and then some of the
best AB tests that you should run. If
you want this doc, I'll have the link
for it below. It's completely free.
Highly recommend you check it out. Now
you know exactly how to create a high
converting browse abandoned flow. There
are a lot more flows to cover. So if you
want to also see the complete guide to
email marketing flows, you can watch
this video and I will see you over